Q, A
Who was Albert Einstein? | A German-born theoretical physicist.
What is Einstein best known for? | Developing the theory of relativity.
Which are the two pillars of the modern physics? | Relativity and quantum mechanics.
What formula is considered "the world's most famous equation"? | His mass-energy equivalence formula E = mc2, which arises from relativity theory.
When did he receive the Nobel Prize? | Received the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1921.
For what did he receive the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1921? | For his services to theoretical physics, and especially for his discovery of the law of the photoelectric effect.
What discovery is considered a step in the development of quantum theory? | The discovery of the law of the photoelectric effect.
In what year did Einstein published four groundbreaking papers? | In 1905.
What is the year 1905 described as? | A year sometimes described as his annus mirabilis.
What did the groundbreaking papers outline? | Outlined the theory of the photoelectric effect, explained Brownian motion, introduced special relativity, and demonstrated mass-energy equivalence.
What led Einstein to develop his special theory of relativity? | The thought that the laws of classical mechanics could no longer be reconciled with those of the electromagnetic field.
When did he publish a paper on general relativity? | In 1916.
When did he introduce his theory of gravitation? | In 1916.
When did he apply the general theory of relativity to model the structure of the universe? | In 1917.
What led to his explanations of particle theory and the motion of molecules? | Because he continued to deal with problems of statistical mechanics and quantum theory.
What laid the foundation of the photon theory of light? | The thermal properties of light and the quantum theory of radiation.
What was he objecting about nature, despite his great contributions to quantum mechanics? | Was objecting that nature "does not play dice".
How did he attempt to devise a unified field theory? | By generalizing his geometric theory of gravitation to include electromagnetism.
Where was Einstein born? | In the German Empire.
When did Einstein move to Switzerland? | In 1895.
When did he forsake his German citizenship? | After he moved to Switzerland in 1895, the following year.
When did he enroll in the mathematics and physics teaching diploma program at the Swiss Federal polytechnic school in Zürich? | In 1897.
When did he graduate the Swiss Federal polytechnic school in Zürich? | In 1900.
When did he acquire the Swiss citizenship? | In 1901.
When was he awarded a PhD by the University of Zurich? | In 1905.