Q, A
Who was Isaac Asimov? | An American writer and professor of biochemistry at Boston University.
Where was he professor at? | At Boston University.
What was Isaac Asimov considered during his lifetime? | One of the "Big Three" science fiction writers.
Along whom was he considered one of the "Big Three" science fiction writers? | Robert A. Heinlein and Arthur C. Clarke.
How many books did Asimov write or edit? | More than 500 books.
How many letters and postcards did he write? | 90,000 letters and postcards.
What else from science fiction did Asimov write? | Also wrote mysteries and fantasy, as well as much nonfiction.
What is Asimov's most famous work? | The Foundation series.
Which books did win him the one-time Hugo Award for "Best All-Time Series" in 1966? | The first three books of the Foundation series.
What were the other major series besides the Foundation? | The Galactic Empire series and the Robot series.
When are the Galactic Empire novels set? | In the much earlier history of the same fictional universe as the Foundation series.
How many short stories did he write? | Over 380.
What novel was voted the best short science fiction story of all time? | The social science fiction novelette "Nightfall".
Who voted the best short science fiction story of all time? | The Science Fiction Writers of America.
When was the social science fiction novelette "Nightfall" voted for the best science fiction story of all time? | In 1964.
What pen name was Asimov using to write the Lucky Starr series of juvenile science-fiction novels? | Paul French.
What concepts do most of his popular science books explain? | Concepts in a historical way.
On what other scientific and non-scientific topics did he write? | Chemistry, astronomy, mathematics, history, biblical exegesis, and literary criticism.
Who was the president of the American Humanist Association? | Isaac Asimov.
What entities have been named in his honor? | The asteroid (5020) Asimov, a crater on the planet Mars, a Brooklyn elementary school, Honda's humanoid robot, ASIMO, and four literary awards.