Q, A
Who was Abraham Lincoln? | Abraham Lincoln was an American lawyer and statesman who served as the 16th president of the United States.
Where was Lincoln born? | Lincoln was born into poverty in a log cabin.
When did him reenter politics? | He reentered politics in 1854.
When did he become the leader in the new Republican Party? | In 1854.
When did Lincoln run for President? | In 1860.
Against who did he reach a national audience in the 1858 debates? | He reached a national audience in the 1858 debates against Stephen Douglas.
What did Lincoln do to secure the new Confederate States independence? | Lincoln called up forces to suppress the rebellion and restore the Union.
Who demanded harsh treatment of the Southern Confederates? | The War Democrats and the Radical Republicans.
What were the anti-war Democrats called? | They were called "Copperheads".
Who despised Lincoln? | The Anti-war Democrats.
How did Lincoln manage the factions? | He managed the factions by exploiting their mutual enmity, carefully distributing political patronage, and by appealing to the American people.
What sentiments did his Gettysburg Address appealed to? | His Gettysburg Address appealed to nationalistic, republican, egalitarian, libertarian, and democratic sentiments.
How did he engineer the end to slavery? | He engineered the end to slavery with his Emancipation Proclamation, including his order that the Army and Navy liberate, protect, and recruit former slaves. He also encouraged border states to outlaw slavery, and promoted the Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, which outlawed slavery across the country.
When was he attending a play at Ford's Theatre in Washington, D.C.? | On April 14, 1865, just days after the war's end at Appomattox.
Who with was he attending a play at Ford's Theatre in Washington, D.C.? | With his wife Mary.
When was Lincoln fatally shot by Confederate sympathizer John Wilkes Booth? | On April 14, 1865.
How is Lincoln remembered in the American history? | Lincoln is remembered as a martyr and hero of the United States and is often ranked as the greatest president in American history.
When was Abraham Lincoln born? | Abraham Lincoln was born on February 12, 1809.
Who was Abraham Lincoln's father? | Thomas Lincoln.
Where was Abraham Lincoln born? | In a log cabin on Sinking Spring Farm near Hodgenville, Kentucky.
When did, his mother, Nancy Lincoln succumbed to milk sickness? | On October 5, 1818.
Who was Lincoln's first romantic interest? | Lincoln's first romantic interest was Ann Rutledge, whom he met when he moved to New Salem.
How  many votes did Lincoln receive in the New Salem precinct? | Lincoln received 277 of the 300 votes cast in the New Salem precinct.
How many volunteer troops did Lincoln send to recapture forts, protect Washington, and "preserve the Union", on april 15? | Lincoln called on the states to send a total of 75,000 volunteer troops.
What did Lincoln respond to criticism of Grant after Shiloh? | Lincoln had said, "I can't spare this man. He fights."