Q, A
Who was Isaac Asimov? | Isaac Asimov was an American writer and professor of biochemistry at Boston University.
What was Isaac Asimov considered during his lifetime? | During his lifetime, Asimov was considered one of the "Big Three" science fiction writers, along with Robert A. Heinlein and Arthur C. Clarke.
How many books did Asimov write or edit? | A prolific writer, he wrote or edited more than 500 books.
How many letters and postcards did he write? | He wrote an estimated 90,000 letters and postcards.
What else from science fiction did Asimov write? | Asimov also wrote mysteries and fantasy, as well as much nonfiction.
What is Asimov's most famous work? | Asimov's most famous work is the Foundation series.
Which books did win him the one-time Hugo Award for "Best All-Time Series" in 1966? | The first three books of the Foundation series.
What were the other major series besides the Foundation? | His other major series are the Galactic Empire series and the Robot series.
When are the Galactic Empire novels set? | The Galactic Empire novels are set in the much earlier history of the same fictional universe as the Foundation series.
How many short stories did he write? | He also wrote over 380 short stories.
What novel was voted the best short science fiction story of all time? | The social science fiction novelette "Nightfall".
Who voted the best short science fiction story of all time? | The Science Fiction Writers of America.
When was the social science fiction novelette "Nightfall" voted for the best science fiction story of all time? | In 1964.
What pen name was Asimov using to write the Lucky Starr series of juvenile science-fiction novels? | He was using the pen name Paul French.
What concepts do most of his popular science books explain? | Most of his popular science books explain concepts in a historical way, going as far back as possible to a time when the science in question was at its simplest stage.
On what other scientific and non-scientific topics did he write? | He wrote on numerous other scientific and non-scientific topics, such as chemistry, astronomy, mathematics, history, biblical exegesis, and literary criticism.
Who was the president of the American Humanist Association? | Isaac Asimov.
What entities have been named in his honor? | Several entities have been named in his honor, including the asteroid (5020) Asimov, a crater on the planet Mars, a Brooklyn elementary school, Honda's humanoid robot, ASIMO, and four literary awards.
From what derives the Asimov's family name? | Asimov's family name derives from the first part of ozímyj khleb.
What does ozímyj khleb mean? | It means the winter grain.
When and where was Asimov born? | Asimov was born in Petrovichi, Russian SFSR, on an unknown date between October 4, 1919, and January 2, 1920, inclusive.
When did Asimov survive pneumonia? | In 1921.
At what age did Asimov graduate the high school? | At 15.
What college did he attend after graduating the high school at 15? | He attended the City College of New York for several days before accepting a scholarship at Seth Low Junior College.
When did Asimov die? | He died in Manhattan on April 6, 1992.